 Nowadays, Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) are commonly found pollutants that have been proved present in a wide variety of everyday life situations. Though they are dangerous and present almost everywhere, VOCs are not efficiently detected. Usual detection devices are very unprecise or requires a very long exposure time. This is why we developed the Quantifly project: a combination of a  bacterial biosensor , perfectly adapted to on-field measurements, and an  innovative drone  that will allow us to easily and rapidly quantify the amount of VOCs in the air. The biosensor relies on  bioluminescence , a biochemical phenomenon that is commonly used in cell imaging. We are trying to develop a  new application  for bioluminescence that should allow us to create a biosensor of a new kind, entirely different from the existing devices. As for the drone, it will be designed to  safely contain  our organisms and carry them on the field, thus acting as  mobile detection platform  
Our brainstorming
This project started when we had the idea to find a new application to bioluminescence, other than tagging or imaging. We noticed that bioluminescence seemed underestimated in the competition, which encouraged us to find a project using it in a very innovative way.The idea of using it in the detection of pollution came to us with the recent environment related conferences such as COP21 that took place in Paris. As a french team, we were very sensitive to this event and the issue of constantly increasing pollution levels, and decided to bring a contribution in order to fight the major flaws that actually exists in air quality measurement. We thus decided to focus on the creation of a drone transporting bacteria that would be able to detect and measure air pollution levels on field. The iGEM IONIS team is developping its project through different axes. We are focused on two areas : the development of our prototype and the realisation of our own european jamboree, the European Experience.
Our prototype
Our R&D team is working hard to develop a complete and functional prototype. This prototype is what we can call a biological system. It is composed of :
- An engineered micro organism such as a bacteria containing our biosensor plasmid
- A drone designed to allow the hermetic transportation of our micro organism while being able to react to the air pollution
In order to lead this project to its realisation, our biology team works in pair with mechanical engineers and computer scientists to develop our product, making our project a multidisciplinary work, which is our strength and allows us to adopt a different approach to synthetic biology.
The European Experience
The iGEM IONIS team and the iGEM Evry team worked together to accomplish a great gathering of the european teams : a european jamboree ! We organized over a week end a symposium with more than 150 people that could assist to conferences and expose their projects, and create great network through the iGEM competition. We also wanted to give all european teams the opportunity to live an incredible weekend, by coming to Paris and being able to live the "science dream" in the city of light ! Though our project aims to realise a lot in a short period of time, we have objectives that would develop further our project Quantifly :