BACKGROUND
Since the 21st century, the urgency of environmental problems and energy crisis looming large. At the same time, bioenergy began to emerge for its biodegradable, renewable, no harm of environment and other advantages. Among them, bio-diesel is considered as an ideal alternative energy for its sustainable regeneration, highly biodegradable, low pollution, high environmental protection and other characteristics.

ADVANTAGES OF MATERIAL
Microalgae as a third-generation biodiesel, it solves the previous two problems of the first two generations of biodiesel. The problems are scrambling for human land resource, the limited sources and low efficiency of raw materials. Microalgae also has some advantages other green oil plant do not have:

1. Cultivation of microalgae does not require a lot of arable land and microalgae can be grown in a variety of water environment like sea, waste water without being provided special water.
2. Microalgae is easy to be cultured and strong adaptability to the environment. It has fast growth speed and short growth cycle, which provides a reliable guarantee for the supply of biodiesel.
3. The photosynthetic efficiency of microalgae is high, it can fix CO2 effectively. Microalgae also can absorb N, P and other nutrients in the water in the process of growth to purify eutrophic water.
4. Comparing with conventional oil-producing crops, microalgae’s oil content is higher. It is more suitable for biodiesel production as a raw material.
DETERMINATION
It is an urgent problem to be solved of how to enhance microalgae oil content and soar oil production at the time of industrialization. To this end, our predecessors have tried by overexpression of the relevant genes to increase oil production in microalgae, but they are limited to operating only a few genes.

Therefore we want to over-expression of multiple genes at the same time to significantly improve microalgae oil production. Through a lot of literature to read, we initially identified as a material for itself with a higher lipid content and its stable conversion performance. In the subsequent study of algae oil metabolic pathways, we locked closely related to algae oil production with ten genes: ME, DGAT, GPAT, GPDH, LPAAT, PAP, PDAT, TGL1, PEPC, U3P. So our main job is to over-expression of the first seven genes, knockdown the latter three genes in phaeodactylum tricornutum to significantly increase the accumulation of lipid（TAG）